Kyle Young

Prof. Fred Annexstein

CS5001

15 September 2024

Individual Capstone Assessment

&emsp;&emsp;  As I begin working on my senior design project, I aim to create something that utilizes my skills learned in class, pushes me to explore unfamiliar content, and ultimately positively influences myself and my peers. My team is planning on creating an educational video game that focuses on teaching responsible forestry, species management, and invasive species control. Our game, tentatively named “The Park Department Tycoon,” is a perfect example of how I want to utilize my education here at the University of Cincinnati. I believe that one of the best uses for technology is when it is used in collaboration with other industries. I am really fond of the idea that I may use software to make a tangible impact on the natural world around us. Upon graduation, I hope that I can use the material learned in class to do some good around me. Whether that is making my peers smile with a video game, or bringing awareness to important issues, I hope that this senior design project may help me practice using computer science in an impactful way.

&emsp;&emsp;  As we get started on planning out our project, we have discovered that our unique college experiences have shaped what tasks we feel best suited to take on, and how we may work together to efficiently begin development. One particularly influential class that we feel will impact our project is Software Engineering (EECE-3093C). This class had us working on teams to create a semester long project. We learned good coding practices, version control methods, and how to work efficiently on a team. All of these skills directly apply to our future work on our project. Another class that we believe is very influential on our project is Data Structures (CS-2028C). For many of us, this class was our first dive into how we can produce higher level concepts by coding it ourselves. It can be tempting to just download a library to handle complex behavior, but our experience in this class was able to give us a solid foundation in object oriented programming, something crucially important for game development.

&emsp;&emsp;  Along with my coursework, I believe that some of the skills I picked up from my co-ops will prove instrumental in the success of our project. During my first and second co-op rotations, I worked for EOSYS as a Systems Integrator Co-op. Here, I managed a large database of valves, pumps, and other electronic devices found in a large brewery. I believe that managing each of these objects in a database software is not too different from how I may program in a video game engine like Godot. Just like my work at EOSYS, I will be handling several object hierarchies, and the signals coming in and out of each object. Similarly, I believe my work as a Developer Operations Co-op at Siemens has given me relevant skills that will be useful for our senior design project. Here, I worked in typescript to develop an extension for VS Code to help improve other developer’s work flows. Most of my work used Git for version control, and I also gained experience in handling merge conflicts with my coworkers. Lastly, I worked closely with the developers that would be using my extension, so I was able to adjust the software to be more usable and easy to understand. My experience with version control and improving user experience will be very applicable to our project topic.

&emsp;&emsp;  I am very eager to begin work on our senior design project, because I am passionate about making games. It's something that I have done in my own time, and it's something that I hope to do after graduation. At the same time, I am excited about our game's mission. I think bringing awareness to the natural world around us, especially to concerns with our local wildlife, is extremely important. Finally, I feel motivated for this project because I know that I am bound to pick up some interesting new skills. I enjoy the feeling of accomplishment when I finally figure something out. I also see that value in becoming a more experienced developer, and how learning as much as I can from projects like this will likely shape the trajectory of my career.

&emsp;&emsp;  Our approach to designing a solution is mostly top-down. We know what our goal is, so we have begun imagining what subject matter we want to cover: forestry, species management, invasive species management, etc. This will help set a rough scope for our game. One topic that we have been discussing recently that highlights this, is forest fires. We agree that dealing with wild fire would be rather interesting, but we will have to weigh the positives against the added workload this feature will cause. Beyond general features, our approach includes rough gameplay features. We know that our game will ultimately need to be fun to play, so we are also considering how the user may interact with the game. This includes details like if the player is viewing the world in first or third person. We are also currently considering the extent to which the player will be developing park features, like trails, restrooms, bird blinds, etc. My expected results for this senior design project is an alpha version of our game. I would like the game to have animals that move around and interact with each other (especially in relation to a food web), plants that can grow and spread, and a system that rewards the player for maintaining a balanced ecosystem. I will evaluate my contributions based on quality of the features I implement. We will be managing tasks in our game using GitHub issues, so we can set timelines and assign one or more people to each task. After each feature, I will reflect on my contribution to see if my implementation meets the requirements set in the GitHub issue and if my code follows good practices. I am especially concerned with maintaining good style, and ensuring that my code allows for future work to easily be added on.
