Self Assessment - Kyle Young

For our senior design project, I focused on the systems that ran the game’s logic. I had an impact on just about every piece of logic that affects how the game actually runs. I helped refine the animal AI code, using my previous knowledge of Godot to separate out the logic into object-based scenes. I also helped out in refining the guest’s logic code. I separated out the guest manager into its own script and several scenes. I got it working consistently and in such a way that it was impacted by the slow motion feature too. I also helped correct the fence generation code. It was having some issues with animals being able to walk through it near the last few segments. I corrected the bug, and made the code more flexible, able to place fences on a diagonal too. 

I also was in charge of creating and refining the camera’s movement. I followed a series of online tutorials that explained the basics, but it took a lot of trial and error to get the movement feeling smooth and user-friendly. Notably, the final camera design included a target that the camera orbits such that when rotating, it's rotating around a focus point, instead of turning like a first person character would. It also makes use of a spring arm, so that the camera has some momentum to it. Without it, the movement was very stiff and somewhat nauseating. 

Another system that I was responsible for was the day-night cycle. I found a fantastic tutorial online that details how to use a gradient to make the sky look beautiful during a sunrise and sunset. I build upon this work to align the day cycle with the in-game clock and day counter. This process was definitely tedious, as I had to learn about syntax changes in the latest few versions of Godot. It turns out, a lot of online tutorials are now only 90% correct, as it takes some deciphering to get the code ported to the newest version of the syntax! 

I also created the ecosystem grader. It was very important to me that the user receive feedback on the main objective of the game: keep your ecosystem healthy. But what does it mean to have a balanced ecosystem? Well, it turns out that there is a real-world formula called the Shannon Diversity Index that is built for this very thing. I incorporated it into the game, measuring the different populations of species that are active and giving them a score using the SDI formula. Then, this score was scaled from 1 to 5, so that we can use it as a multiplier, increasing their received funds per guest based on how they were doing. 

One of the most important systems that I created was the placement code. This was the game logic that allowed the user to place down structures and animals, the user’s tools to manage their park. This was a huge endeavor and touched nearly every aspect of our project. I collaborated with Owen in the UI, as I connected the animal buttons to the corresponding placement code. I worked with the animal models, starting off with a simple crate mesh, and swapping to Ryan’s animal model one confirmation. I also had to be wary of other game logic being affected, as I needed to interact with the user’s fund variable, and add placed objects to the scene. Beyond that, some of the objects, like the research center, needed special logic implemented when they were placed.

All in all, I think our group accomplished our goal. We created a fully functional game that allows the user to learn about ecosystems in a fun and educational way. The user can interact with their environment, learning about its fragility, while receiving feedback about how healthy the park is. The users can navigate the UI with ease to add more animals or buildings. In fact, the animals and buildings look great! Having detailed models helps to keep users entertained and engaged.

I learned that group work can be tricky! This project has a lot of moving parts and we had to learn to work together with excellent communication to ensure the project stayed cohesive. I think we did a great job delegating different tasks to different people depending on that team member’s primary responsibility. We also did a good job communicating in Discord, Teams, and GitHub, to be sure we were on the same page for feature decisions, deadlines, and stretch goals. As for features that we could have improved on, I think we could have done more with the assignments in class. At the end of this project, I can’t say that the project management assignments hold any real value for us. It feels like the entire first semester was making chart after chart about what we were going to do, but it really put us in a weird spot, as we spent all of our free time on these charts instead of actually developing our project.

I think that all members did a fantastic job and I would say that we did a similar amount of work. I definitely got carried away at times, implementing extra features that interested me. For that reason, I suspect that I may have dedicated extra time to the project. That said, I think that all members went above the expectations for this semester and I am really proud of what we got done! I think that Owen and Nate deserve extra attention for their work, as they took a lot of initiative learning Godot, an engine that they were previously unfamiliar with. I know they put a lot of effort and hours into deciphering the new technology, and they both did a fantastic job implementing their work and adapting to the unfamiliar environment. In the same way, Ryan did a fantastic job learning about Blender and creating some truly phenomenal models for our animals.
