# Self Assessment - Nathan Suer

<!-- The purpose of the Self-Assessment and the Team-Assessment is to reflect on all your personal and group accomplishments in Senior Design. 

Part A - Two Paragraphs: What was your individual contribution to this project? Did you apply and build upon the skills identified in your initial assessment from last Fall? What did you do and how did you do it? What did you learn and what competencies did you build? What were your successes, what were you obstacles?

Part B – Two Paragraphs: What did your group accomplish? What did you learn about group work? What aspects of teamwork were successful and what aspects of teamwork were not successful? How did your efforts on the project compare to that of your teammates?  Do any team members deserve special recognition? -->

My main contribution to the project was prograaming of the animals. This included their AI, systems, and animations. The AI was programmed to be reactive to the environment and other animals. This was quite hard because I wanted to make the animals as realistic as possible. One example opf this is how I programmed their needs. I like to say thsat it is simil;ar to the sims games. When an animal is below a certain thrreshold in a need, it will seek out to fufuill that need. An examplew of this is if an animal is starving, it will seek out food. The other main examples are social and reproductive needs. They will also seek to fufull those. With tthe social need, This was made so that animals stay in grouyps like in the wild. This created an issue though. The issue was that they would group up too much, decimate the food supply, and then all die of starvation. I fixed this by creating a group size. The animals would seek to stay in a group of that size, if their were more animals then the group size, they would be incentivized to leave the group. This fixed the issue of them decimating the food supply.

Yes, I did apply and build upon the skills identified in your initial assessment from last Fall. These skills were learning new languages, managing large projects, and working with a team. I learned new languages through coding in GDScript and working with a game engine, both of which I had never done before. I learned how to do it through online tutorials and triasl anmd error. I learned how to manage large projects through the use of GitHub anf teamwork. I learned how to work with a team through communication and collaboration and that communication is key to a successful project. I learned that it's important to be open to feedback and suggestions from others. My successes were being able to program the animals and their AI. My obstacles were learning the new language and working with a new team.

My group accomplished creating a fully working video game that is fun and educational. We created a fully working ecosystem simulator that will allow users and students to better understand the importance of ecology and the environment. I learned that group work is important for a successful project. There are entire parts of the project that I never touched and I also didn't know how they worked. This is because it was a very large project and I had to depend on and ttrust my team to complete the work. The aspects of teamwork that were successful were communication and collaboration. We all worked well together and communicated effectively. The aspects of teamwork that were not successful were time management and organization. We struggled with keeping track of tasks and deadlines. We also struggled with keeping track of who was doing what sometimes. Another issue was that we would sometimes overlap work and not realize it. This caused some confusion and wasted time. 

I beleive that all group members did a similar amount of work on this project. I would say that I was in the middle of the pack in terms of effort and contribution. I think that all group members deserve special recognition for their hard work and dedication to the project. I would like to give a special shoutout to Ryan, who worked on the mdels and animation. They did an amazing job and their work was crucial to the success of the project. Overall, I am very proud of what we accomplished as a team and I believe that we created something truly special.