Senior design projects are a way to show all that we have learned in our time at college. There meant to be a culmination of all the skills we have gained and show how much we have improved. For my group's senior project, we are creating an educational video game focusing on teaching responsible forestry, species management, and invasive species control through an engaging tycoon game. Through this senior project I hope to learn about video game development. I'm especially excited to learn what programming a video game is like. The real-time and reactive environment fascinates me.

All the skills and knowledge I have gained in collge, will help guide me in the development of this project. In my Programming languages course (CS 3003) I learned about how programming languages are designed. I also learned about how the design of each langauge changes what situations you would use that language in. This class helped me understand languages and made me multilingual in programming languages. This will help me in my project because I will be using a new language. So knowing how this new language was designed, will help me use it. The knowledge I gained in software engineering (EECE 3093) will also help in the development of this project. In software engineering we learned about software development techniques and design. Since this project is large, we must plan it out accordingly. The Software engineering class taught me how to do this correctly.

All the skills I have learned in co-op, both technical and non-technical, will help guide me in the development of this project. My first co-op employer was a company called Emerson. In this co-op I had the title of IT/MIS/Computer Science Co-op. I worked with RPA's, also known as robotic process automations. RPA's are a piece of software that automate tasks that would usually be done by a real person. In this co-op experience I gained skills in python, communication, and agile development. These skills will help me in my senior project because my team must have effective communication and use project management to keep oursleves on track. My second co-op employer was cincinnati childrens hospital. In this co-op I had the title of Student Biomedical Developer. I worked with developing software for brain research. This inlcuded analysis software and brain to computer interfaces. In this co-op experience I gained skills in c++, matlab, project management, leadership, writing, and expiremental technology. These skills will help me in my senior project because my team must manage and lead ourselves in creating this project.

I am motivated for this project because I know it will help me learn new skills while also contribute to ecological welfare. I have always been interested in nature and animals. It makes me sad to see invasive plant and animal species everywhere. Not much is being done to prevent the destruction of enviroments by invasive plant and animal species. I believe the main issue is that know one thinks of it. This is why we want to create this video game. We want to create a realistic video game that will bring awareness and education to this issue. While there are some video games that try to bring awareness, they horribly fail. These games are not realistic and in my opinion are just people trying to make money off of this issue. 

Our approach to designing a solution is to make the game as realistic and educational as possible. We also want the user to have fun while playing it too. We hope this will show people that steps can be done to stop this natural disaster. We also want to show people that they can have fun doing it. Our expected result is a fully working video game that we will release to steam. Our expected accomplishments are creating a realistic and fun nature preservation tycoon. I don't expect we'll ever be really done with the project, I hope that we could continually support the game even after our senior project. We will know we have done a good job when we have people playing the game for hours and asking for more content and enviroments.  
