From my perspective, my team’s senior design project is an opportunity for me to upskill in the field of 3D modeling. During role selection within my team, I chose to join the assets team, specializing in the models required for our grid-based ecosystem, as well as the animals that populate it. This is because I have slowly been improving at 3D modeling, specifically in Blender, and I want to take my skill to the next level. In addition, the educational aspect of this game relating to wildlife and ecosystem conservation is a way for me to learn more about our world and how to care for it.

Multiple courses from my college curriculum prepared me to take on this project. Data Structures (CS-2028) was particularly important for teaching me the basic ways to store variables and data, present across programming languages. Operating Systems (EECE-4029) helped me understand the ways low-level system processes allocate resources, useful for optimizing performance of our educational game. Software Engineering (EECE-3093) stood out for the instructor’s practical-minded approach, teaching us the Agile method of project management. We will be using an Agile-like method to organize work on this project, so I already have experience in this. 

My second rotation at Siemens Digital Industries as a Software Engineering Co-op was useful in teaching me the basics of web-based 3D technologies. Even though our application runs locally instead of in a web environment, it’s still very helpful to go into this with experience in scene lighting and design. My rotations with Siemens Healthineers as a Software Engineering Co-op were in Germany, which certainly helped me develop non-technical skills. I became much more adaptable to change and willing to test new ideas, which made me a better person and partner on a project predicated on new ideas.

My excitement for our project comes from my love of animals and conservation. It’s important to me that the world’s ecosystems are preserved, and invasive species and human intrusion are curbed to protect their delicate balance. Our game will capture this struggle in a more friendly low-poly art style, bringing an issue I care about in front of many more people. 

Our first explorations into this project have been revolving around an isometric-view game hovering over a landscape of 3D tiles, each representing a small piece of the overall ecosystem. Animals would be visible as they rest or move between tiles, signifying their hunting patterns or nesting areas. The player would place buildings and improvements such as preserve boundaries or nature trails, with the goal of growing human attraction while leaving the wilds as undisturbed as possible. The revenue gained from this responsible development would be invested in projects like invasive species removal or re-seeding extirpated species, improving the health of the environment. 

The expected results of this project would be to complete our game, or get it to a state where it can be played, conveys the information we want it to, is fun for the audience, and reflects our vision for the project. I want to be proud of our final product, so I can give copies to friends and family, as well as list this on my resume. 

I will evaluate my contributions to the project by keeping stock of how many tickets I complete on our kanban board, as well as the volume of effort that went into completing each ticket. By having my effort listed out, it will help me compare to my groupmates and what I expect from myself. With a game project, there will always be things we can add or improve. However, I will know I have done what I set out to do when the assets our game uses are beautiful in their stylized way, and each part contributes to the overall visual style we’re going for. 
